Figure 4.3.
Phases of New Product Development

Business analysis

Product development

<=

Commercialization

Source: Pride, W. M. and Ferrell, O.C. (2020). Marketing. Cengage Learning

Product Differentiation is the process of designing products to stand out from
competitors by focusing on:

1. Product quality (level and consistency)

2. Product design and features, and

3. Product support services.

Product Positioning refer to the decision and activities to shape customer perceptions
through advertising and maintain a desired product image. Perceptual Maps are creating
by using consumer feedback to create visual maps, showing customer preferences and
brand positioning.
4.3. Packaging & Labeling

Packaging involved container development to store a product. It is vital for product to
enhance versatility, safety, and ease of use. It conveys essential details and shapes
customer perceptions and purchase decisions, akin to a brand name

Packaging design factors:

1. Cost: Balancing consumer willingness to pay.

2. Regulations: Compliance and tamper-evident features.
Consistency: Harmonizing package designs across products.
Family Packaging: Uniform design elements.

Promotion: Color, shape, and texture create desirable associations.
Retailer Needs: Facilitating transportation and storage.
Environment: Balancing conservation and customer convenience.

SU FON I i: 12

Packaging is a key marketing component, rapidly establishing market recognition for
new products. Marketers must weigh packaging costs and changes.

Provides identification, promotion, and other information. Labels enhance promotional
efforts by highlighting discounts, larger sizes, and new features.

4.4. Developing & Managing Products

Marketer analyze the product mix to identify and address gaps through line extensions
or modifications (quality, function, aesthetics). The seven-phase process for new
product development is shown in Figure 4.3
4.2. Branding
Branding:
e A brand is A distinctive identifier of a seller’s goods or services, including a
brand name (spoken part) and brand mark (symbolic part).
e Trademark: Legal right for exclusive brand use.
e Trade Name: Organization’s official legal name.

Brand value to Buyers:
1. Product Identification: Streamlines purchasing.
2. Risk Reduction: Lowers perceived purchase risks.
3. Status Symbol: Offers psychological benefits of ownership.

Brand value to Sellers:
1. Product Differentiation: Helps identify products.
2. Promotion: Aids in marketing efforts.
3. Customer Loyalty: Stabilizes market share and improves resource efficiency.

Brand Equity Components:
1. Brand Awareness
2. Brand Loyalty
Brand loyalty is a customer’s positive perception of a brand, crucial for reducing
competition impact and assuring new customers. Quality judgment may be
inferred from the brand name. The three loyalty levels are:
a. Insistence: Unwavering preference for a brand, rejecting alternatives.
b. Preference: Favoring one brand over others.
c. Recognition: Awareness of a brand.
3. Perceived Brand Quality
It supports premium pricing and differentiates from competitors.
4. Brand Associations
Marketers link specific lifestyles or personalities to brands, appealing to
relatable consumers.

There are three brand categories:
1. Manufacturer Brands: Producer-initiated brand.
2. Private Distributor Brands or private brands: Reseller-initiated and own brand.
3. Generic Brands: brands that only indicate product category.

There are two branding strategies:
1. Individual Branding: Unique names for each product.
2. Family Branding: A common name across products.
